In the last video, we saw that defining a get initial prop function on the app component somehow disabled
the one we had put together inside of our landing page.
So in this video, we're going to figure out how to solve this so quick diagram.
So this is what is going on behind the scenes.
We've got our app component.
It is trying to fetch some data and get that as props down into the app.
We've also got the landing page rather than calling index dogs, I'll call it landing page right here.
And that it's got has its own get initial props function.
And right now that thing is not being invoked.
But here's how we're going to fix this.
We are going to get that components get initial prop function and we are going to manually invoke it
inside of the custom app components, get initial props.
So we're going to be fetching two sets of data, one set of data for the app component and one set of
data for the landing page.
So we'll take all that information and pass it down into the app component as props.
And we're going to somehow chop up that information and make sure some of it goes down eventually into
the landing page as well.
Okay.
Let me show you how we're going to do this.
Back inside, my editor, I'll find the app components, get initial props.
Remember that app context argument right there?
Let's do a full console log of it.
Previously we had just done a console log of the keys.
This time around, let's do a console log of the entire thing.
Okay.
I'm going to save that and then going to go and refresh my application just to execute that stuff.
I'll then go back over to my terminal and I'll see a big console.log right here.
So this big console log is that app context.
I'm going to scroll up a little bit or maybe a lot, I suppose.
And then up here is the top of that console log.
You'll notice that it has a property on it of Capital C component.
So that component property right there is a reference to the component or the page that we are currently
trying to render.
Since we have a reference to the component, we can access that components or that pages get initial
props function directly.
So we are going to get the component dot, get initial props and we will just invoke it on our own.
When we invoke it, we'll make sure that we pass down some arguments related to say context so that
that thing can work correctly.
We will let it fetch some data and we're going to take the data that comes back and we will return it
manually from get initial props.
So let's take a look at how we're going to do this.
I'm going to delete that console log.
Then right after we make our own call to a current user right here.
I'm going to say opponent props or how about page props?
A little bit easier to parse or understand.
And then for that, we're going to do an await.
Context.
Dot.
Component with the Capital C.
Dot get initial props.
And again, whenever we call get initial props, that thing is going to expect some arguments for us.
In particular, we expected to receive that context argument so we can take a look at the context off
of the app context.
Remember two kinds of different contexts here.
The property is intended to go into a individual page.
The app component context is intended to go into the app component.
So we will call get initial props with app context, KCTCS.
So then we're eventually going to get back the set of page props.
That's going to be the set of data that we had tried to fetch or are trying to fetch from the components
or the individual pages.
Get initial props.
Right now, let's just do a console log of that.
I'm going to do a console log of page props like so.
At present, the data we're trying to fetch out of that thing is the same information we were trying
to fetch a moment ago the current user.
So if everything worked, I should get a console log once again of the current user.
Okay, let's try this out.
I'm going to go and refresh the page again.
I'll then go back over my journal.
I'm going to scroll down to the bottom and I'll see console.log of current user right there.
Perfect.
So that means we are now executing the get initial functions for both the app component and for the
individual page as well.
Now there is something that we need to be aware of.
Right now we have a get initial props defined for our landing page.
So that's inside of our indexed file.
But we also have pages such as the sign in and the sign up that do not have a get initial prompts function.
So we need to make sure that we handle the case where.
Back inside of our app.
This get initial props is undefined.
So if that thing is undefined, we don't want to try and fetch any data.
So to handle this, we could just do a quick little check.
I'm going to say let page props out here.
I'll then say if app context component get initial props.
So if that is defined, let's go ahead and try to fetch some data and assign it to this page.
Props variable.
So cut that cost page props.
I'll paste it in there.
And now I do not want to redefine page props.
Instead, I'm going to assign to the one we had defined right above.
I'm also going to default this thing to be an empty object so that if we fail this if statement, I
will still have some kind of empty object to share around.
Okay.
So let's save this now.
Now, we should be able to visit, say, the sign up page without having anything crash or anything
like that.
So if I go back over to my browser, I should be able to go to sign up, which does not have a get initial
function but looks like everything still works.
Same thing for sign in as well.
Cool.
Yeah.
Let's flip back over.
So now we are getting some information that is common for every page inside of app.
Get initial props.
And we've also have some logic inside of here to get some information for a very particular page.
It's not the last thing we have to do is make sure that we take the page props.
We take any data that we're fetching for the app component.
We need to return all this stuff and then make sure that it somehow gets divvied up between the header
and the component or the page that we're actually trying to show.
It's a quick pause, and we'll finish this up in just a moment.